== Xfce loses toolbars on windows, and other stuff ==

Press Alt + F2, and restart the file manager, xfwm4

== Resize application windows without anoying bug in XFCE ==

Best Method: Alt + right-click + drag

This is maybe the easiest and most useful way of resizing windows. Simply beautiful: holding Alt and left-click drag!

== How to solve "Your profile could not be opened correctly" issue in Chrome ==

If Chrome has not been shut down correctly, it displays the message "Your profile could not be opened correctly" at startup and
some features are unavailable. The following procedure fixes the issue, by removing the locks on the sqlite3 files

 cd .config/google-chrome
 mv Default Default.bak
 cp -r Default.bak Default.

== Firefox and Thunderbird refuse to start after PC crash ==

Delete the ''lock''  and ''.parentlock'' files in ''.thunderbird'' and ''.mozilla/firefox'' directories

== Manually install 64-bit Flash player in Chrome ==

Get the beta version of the Flash Player from Adobe site. Create a directory /opt/google/chrome/plugins and place the file there.
Start Chrome with

/opt/google/chrome/google-chrome --enabled-plugins %U

and go to about:plugins, the new version should show up.

== Use sshfs ==

Install sshfs from the appropriate software repositories.

Make a directory remoteVolume/ in $HOME and assign appropriate rights

Connect to the remote machine with

sshfs xxx@rzlx1.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de:/absolute/remote/path/ ~/remoteVolume/

to dismount volume use

fusermount -u /$HOME/remoteVolume/

== Thunderbird launches twice ==

After clicking on the Thunderbird icon, the applications tries to launch twice and hangs for a couple of seconds. This is a known Mozilla bug and can be solved by 
disabling the Launch feedback checkbox in the Launcher properties.
Disable Launch feedback

