= Python =
 * [http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/ Style Guide for Python Code]
 * [http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/ Docstring Conventions]
 * [http://sschwarzer.com/download/robustere_python_programme_clt2010_print.pdf Robustere Python-Programme]

== plotting in ipython ==
Start ipython with {{{ ipython --pylab }}}
{{{
    T = [0, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400]
    M = [0.83, .92, 1.1, .9, .55, .04]
    S = [0, 1.99, 2.58, 1.99, 1.13, 0.42]
    p1 = plot(T,M, label="|mu_ssa - mu_bsde|", marker="s")
    p2 = plot(T,S, label="|sigma_ssa - sigma_bsde|", marker="o")
    title('errors in table I')
    xlabel('time')
    ylabel('error')
    legend()
}}}

== reading a hdf5 file into python ==
{{{
import h5py
import numpy as np
f = h5py.File('test_file.h5', 'r')
d = f[f.keys()[0]] # first dataset
values = d[:]
values
Out[15]: 
array([[ 0.84018772,  0.39438293,  0.78309922,  0.79844003,  0.91164736,
         0.19755137,  0.33522276,  0.76822959,  0.27777471,  0.55396996],
       [ 0.47739705,  0.62887092,  0.36478447,  0.51340091,  0.95222973,
         0.91619507,  0.63571173,  0.71729693,  0.14160256,  0.60696888],
       [ 0.01630057,  0.24288677,  0.13723158,  0.80417675,  0.15667909,
       [...]
f.close()
}}}

== reading a hdf5 files into numpy ==
{{{

#
# This example reads integer data from dset.h5 file into Python floatng buffers.
#
import h5py
import numpy as np
#
# Open an existing file using default properties.
#
file = h5py.File('dset.h5','r+')
#
# Open "dset" dataset under the root group.
#
dataset = file['/dset']
#
# Initialize buffers,read and print data.
#
# Python float type is 64-bit, one needs to use NATIVE_DOUBLE HDF5 type to read data. 
data_read64 = np.zeros((4,6,), dtype=float)
dataset.id.read(h5py.h5s.ALL, h5py.h5s.ALL, data_read64, mtype=h5py.h5t.NATIVE_DOUBLE)
print "Printing data 64-bit floating numbers..."
print data_read64

data_read32 = np.zeros((4,6,), dtype=np.float32)
dataset.id.read(h5py.h5s.ALL, h5py.h5s.ALL, data_read32, mtype=h5py.h5t.NATIVE_FLOAT)
print "Printing data 32-bit floating numbers..."
print data_read32
#
# Close the file before exiting
#
file.close()

}}}
form http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/examples/Py/h5_readtofloat.py


== IndentationError ==
Could come from a mixture of tabs and spaces in the file in Vim do:
One easy way is ":set list". It also shows other control characters. 
Turn it off with ":set nolist".

If that doesn't do it, you can do / C-V C-I (slash control-V control-I) to
search for a tab character. 

Or :%s/C-V C-I/    /g to remove the tabs

== Use a .py file as config for a programm == 
 * the program:
{{{ 
def readPythonConfig(confile, parameter):
    config = __import__(confile)
    for p, w in parameter.iteritems():
        parameter[p] = getattr(config, p, w)
    return parameter
    
parameter = {'hase': 'leo',    'fisch': 'stefan', 
             'hund': 'jochen', 'katze': 'unknown'}
       
print readPythonConfig('config', parameter) 
}}}
 * the config.py:
{{{
hase = "Roger Rabbit"
fisch = "Wanda"
katze = "garfield"
}}}

== Notes to pdb (Python Debugger) ==
 * {{{ import pdb; pdb.set_trace() }}} At this point, you can type r to 'r'eturn from the set_trace() call to the method where you inserted the breakpoint, and you can start stepping through and examining your environment.
{{{
try:
    [YOUR CODE HERE]
except:
    import pdb, sys
    e, m, tb = sys.exc_info()
    pdb.post_mortem(tb)
}}}
 * http://greeennotebook.com/2010/06/using-the-python-debugger-pdb/ Using the Python Debugger pdb]
 * http://docs.python.org/library/pdb.html pdb - The Python Debugger]
 * http://pythonconquerstheuniverse.wordpress.com/2009/09/10/debugging-in-python/ Debugging in Python]
 * http://onlamp.com/pub/a/python/2005/09/01/debugger.html Interactive Debugging in Python]
 * http://ipython.scipy.org/doc/manual/html/interactive/tutorial.html Quick IPython tutorial]

== Cython and Numpy ==
 * [http://wiki.cython.org/tutorials/numpy Cython for Numpy users]
 * [http://docs.cython.org/src/tutorial/numpy.html Using Cython with Numpy]
 * Install Numpy, numpy-dev, and cython, set paths like this in .bashrc:
{{{
    export PYTHONPATH=~/bin/cython/:${PYTHONPATH}
    export PYTHONPATH=~/bin/cython/Cython-0.13/:${PYTHONPATH}
    export PYTHONPATH=~/bin/cython/bin/:${PYTHONPATH}
    export PYTHONPATH=~/bin/cython/lib64/:${PYTHONPATH}
    export PYTHONPATH=~/bin/cython/lib64/python2.6/site-packages/Cython/Includes/:${PYTHONPATH}
}}}
 * compile code with {{{python setup.py build_ext --inplace}}} using:
{{{
#!/usr/bin/python
# =========================================================================
"""
*       Filename:  setup.py 
*    Description:  Compiles the file LUdecomposition.pyx
*                  build with $ python setup.py build_ext --inplace"""
# =========================================================================
from distutils.core import setup
from distutils.extension import Extension
from Cython.Distutils import build_ext
import numpy

ext_modules = [Extension(
    "LUdecomposition",           # name of extension
    ["LUdecomposition.pyx"],     # filename of our Pyrex/Cython source
    include_dirs=[numpy.get_include()]
    )]

setup(
  name = 'LUdecomposition',
  cmdclass = {'build_ext': build_ext},
  ext_modules = ext_modules
)

# --- EOF -----------------------------------------------------------------
}}}
 * build your code in *.pyx files like this:
{{{
import numpy as np
cimport numpy as np
def LUdecomposition(np.ndarray[np.float64_t, ndim=2] A not None): 
    cdef int n,k,j,i
    if A.shape[0] != A.shape[1]:
        print 'ERROR in LUdecomposition.m:'
        print 'Matrix ist nicht quadratisch'
        return 
    n = A.shape[0]
    for k in xrange(0,n-1):
        if A[k,k] == 0:
            print 'ERROR in LUdecomposition.m:'
            print 'Matrix besitzt keine LR-Zerlegung'
            return
        for j in xrange(k+1,n):
            A[j,k] /= A[k,k]
            for i in xrange(k+1,n):
                A[j,i] -= A[j,k]*A[k,i]
    return A
}}}
 * call module in normal python code:
{{{
    from LUdecomposition import *
}}}

== Numpy and Scipy ==
 * [http://www.scipy.org/ Scipy]
 * [http://numpy.scipy.org/  Numpy]
 * [http://www.scipy.org/NumPy_for_Matlab_Users Numpy for Matlab Users]
 * [http://www.scipy.org/Cookbook Scipy Cookbook]
 * [http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.3.x/reference/ Numpy 1.3 Reference]
 * [http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.3.x/user/ Numpy 1.3 User Guide]
 * [http://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy-0.7.x/reference/  Scipy v0.7 Reference Guide]
 * [http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/users/pyplot_tutorial.html Pyplot tutorial]

== for loops ==
{{{
    imax = 100
    for i in xrange(imax):
        ...

    from itertools import repeat
    for i in repeat(None, imax):
        ...
}}}

== Code Snippets ==
=== Shebang ===
{{{
#!/usr/bin/python
}}}

=== text output and variables===
{{{
print "Hello World"
i=5
print i
}}}

=== for loop ===
{{{
for i in range(1,10):
		print i
}}}

=== while loop ===
{{{
while i<10:
		print i
		i=i+1
}}}

=== if conditions ===
{{{
if i==3:
	print "three"
elif i==5:
	print "five"
else:
	print "Something else"
}}}

=== vectors ===
{{{
v=(1,'bla',2,"x")
for i in range(0,4):
		print v[i]
}}}

=== external programs ===
{{{
import os
os.system("ls")
os.mkdir("Apfelstrudel")
os.chdir("/usr/people/.../")
}}}
for details see: [http://docs.python.org/library/os.html#os.system os.system on Python Docs]

=== external programs ===
{{{
for i in (11):
    print "%03d" % i
}}}

The "%03d" tells python to complete every item in "i" to at least an 3 character number. In this example the numbers from 1 - 10 will be completed in this way : 001, 002, 003, ..., 009, 010 . The interesting part is the last number
which normally makes trouble.

=== run a script in different directories of type 001 002 003 ... ===
{{{
import os
for i in range(11):
    print "%03d" % i
    os.chdir("%03d" % i)
    os.system("pwd")
    cmd = "./MyLittlePony.sh &> ./MyLittleLogfile.log"
    os.system(cmd)
}}}

=== Automatic Doc String Testing ===
See also: [http://docs.python.org/library/doctest.html doctest --- Test interactive Python examples]
{{{
def _test():
    import doctest, test
    return doctest.testmod(test)

def hallo(a,b):
    """
    usage:
    >>> import test
    >>> print test.hallo(1,2)
    3
    """
    return a+b

if __name__ == '__main__':
    _test()
}}}
{{{
$ python test.py -v
Trying:
    import test
Expecting nothing
ok
Trying:
    print test.hallo(1,2)
Expecting:
    3
ok
2 items had no tests:
    test
    test._test
1 items passed all tests:
   2 tests in test.hallo
2 tests in 3 items.
2 passed and 0 failed.
Test passed.
}}}

=== Vim scripts with Python ===
{{{
" From: www.swaroopch.com/
" Make sure we run only once
if exists("loaded_related")
    finish
endif
let loaded_related = 1

function Related()
python <<EOF

import vim

print 'Length of the current line is', len(vim.current.line)

EOF
endfunction
}}}

== Vim and Python ==
Place the following in your .bashrc
{{{
export $EDITOR="/usr/bin/gvim -p"
alias vim=$EDITOR
alias vi=$EDITOR
alias gvim=$EDITOR
alias e=$EDITOR
alias kate=$EDITOR
alias nedit=$EDITOR
alias nano=$EDITOR
}}}
Place the following in your .vimrc
{{{
" Automatically indent when adding a curly bracket, etc.
set smartindent

" Tabs should be converted to a group of 4 spaces. (official Python
convention)
set shiftwidth=4
set tabstop=4
set expandtab
set smarttab
autocmd FileType python runtime! autoload/pythoncomplete.vim
}}}

== VMD and Python ==
Start the python mode in VMD with:
 vmd -dispdev text -python -e Your_VMD_Python_Script.vmdpy
Display the atomsel help by:
{{{
from atomsel import *
help(atomsel)
}}}
This leads to the following output:
{{{
Help on class atomsel in module atomsel:

class atomsel(__builtin__.object)
 |  atomsel( selection, molid = top, frame = now) -> new selection object
 |
 |  Methods defined here:
 |
 |  __getattribute__(...)
 |      x.__getattribute__('name') <==> x.name
 |
 |  __getitem__(...)
 |      x.__getitem__(y) <==> x[y]
 |
 |  __len__(...)
 |      x.__len__() <==> len(x)
 |
 |  __repr__(...)
 |      x.__repr__() <==> repr(x)
 |
 |  __str__(...)
 |      x.__str__() <==> str(x)
 |
 |  center(...)
 |      center(weight=None) -> (x, y, z)
 |      Return a tuple corresponding to the center of the selection,
 |      optionally weighted by weight.
 |
 |  contacts(...)
 |      contacts(sel, cutoff) -> contact pairs
 |      Return two lists, whose corresponding elements contain atom indices
 |      in selection that are within cutoff of sel, but not directly bonded.
 |
 |  fit(...)
 |      fit(sel, weight=None) -> transformation matrix
 |      Compute and return the transformation matrix for the RMS alignment
 |      of the selection to sel.  The format of the matrix is a 16-element
 |      tuple suitable for passing to the move() method.
 |      Weight must be None or list of same size as selections.
 |
 |  get(...)
 |      get( attrib ) -> corresponding attrib values for selected atoms.
 |
 |  minmax(...)
 |      minmax() -> (min, max)
 |      Return minimum and maximum coordinates for selected atoms.
 |
 |  move(...)
 |      move( matrix ) -> apply coordinate transformation to selection.
 |      matrix should be of the form returned by fit().
 |
 |  moveby(...)
 |      moveby( vec ) -> shift the selection by the three-element vector vec.
 |
 |  rmsd(...)
 |      rmsd(sel, weight=None) -> rms distance between selections.
 |      Selections must have the same number of atoms.
 |      Weight must be None or list of same size as selections.
 |
 |  sasa(...)
 |      sasa(srad, sel, ... ) -> solvent accessible surface area.
 |      srad gives solvent radius.
 |      Optional keyword arguments:
 |        samples=500 -- specifies number of sample points used per atom.
 |        points=None -- If points is a list, coordinates of surface points
 |          will be appended to the list.
 |        restrict=None -- Pass an atom selection as argument to restrict
 |          to find contributions coming from just atoms in restrict.
 |
 |  set(...)
 |      set( attrib, val ) -> set attrib values for selected atoms.
 |      val must be either a single value, or a sequence of values, one for
 |       each atom in selection.
 |
 |  update(...)
 |      update() -> Recompute atoms in selection; if the selection is
 |      distance-based (e.g., if it uses 'within'), changes to the frame
 |      will not be reflected in the selected atoms until this method
 |      is called.
 |
 |  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 |  Data and non-method functions defined here:
 |
 |  __doc__ = 'atomsel( selection, molid = top, frame = now) -> new select...
 |
 |  __new__ = <built-in method __new__ of type object>
 |      T.__new__(S, ...) -> a new object with type S, a subtype of T
 |
 |  bonds = <attribute 'bonds' of 'atomsel.atomsel' objects>
 |
 |  frame = <attribute 'frame' of 'atomsel.atomsel' objects>
 |
 |  molid = <attribute 'molid' of 'atomsel.atomsel' objects>
 |
 |  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 |  Methods inherited from __builtin__.object:
 |
 |  __delattr__(...)
 |      x.__delattr__('name') <==> del x.name
 |
 |  __hash__(...)
 |      x.__hash__() <==> hash(x)
 |
 |  __init__(...)
 |      x.__init__(...) initializes x; see x.__class__.__doc__ for signature
 |
 |  __reduce__(...)
 |      helper for pickle
 |
 |  __setattr__(...)
 |      x.__setattr__('name', value) <==> x.name = value
 |
 |  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 |  Data and non-method functions inherited from __builtin__.object:
 |
 |  __class__ = <type 'type'>
}}}
 * [http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd/current/ug/node145.html Python Text Interface]
 * [http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd/current/ug/node149.html The built-in atomsel type]

=== Loop trough a trajectory ===
The following script reads in a psf and several dcd-files one after the other and writes the ''x y z'' coordinates of all atoms in all frames to files called ''dummy-fi[frame-number].dat''. 
{{{
from molecule import *
from atomsel  import *
import sys

##############################################################################

##############################################################################

psffile  = '../sim_template/data/004_md_start.psf'
dcds     = '../sim_template/results/trajectories/004_md.'
firstdcd = 1
lastdcd  = 29
yoursel  = 'all' # you can use all atomselection commands known from vmd
##############################################################################


for dcdi in range(firstdcd,lastdcd+1):
    mid=load('psf',psffile)
    dcdfile=dcds+str(dcdi)+'.dcd'
    read(mid, 'dcd', dcdfile, 0, -1, 1, -1)
    N=numframes(mid)

    for fi in range(0,N):
        sel=atomsel(yoursel,frame=fi)

        x=sel.get('x')
        y=sel.get('y')
        z=sel.get('z')

        fout=open('dummy-fi'+repr(fi)+'.dat','w')
        for j in range(0,len(x)):
            fout.write(repr(x[j])+' '+repr(y[j])+' '+repr(z[j])+'\n')
        fout.close()
    delete(mid)
sys.exit()
}}}

=== pass command line arguments from vmd to python ===
Execute the following script with:
 vmd -dispdev text -python -e sel2pdb.vmdpy -args -one -two -three four
{{{
from molecule import *
from atomsel  import *
import sys

for arg in sys.argv:
    print arg

sys.exit()
}}}

== Literature and Websites ==
 * [http://www.python.org/ www.python.org]
 * [http://docs.python.org/tut/tut.html Guido van Rossum: Python Tutorial]
 * [http://www.swaroopch.com/notes/Python Swaroop C H: A Byte of Python]
 * [http://docs.python.org/reference/ The Python Language Reference Release: 2.6]
 * [http://docs.python.org/library/ The Python Standard Library Release: 2.6]
 * [http://docs.python.org/search.html Search Python v2.6.1 documentation]
 * [http://wiki.python.org/moin/NumericAndScientific Numeric and Scientific with Python]
 * [http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/index.html matplotlib is a python 2D plotting library]
 * [http://www.dalkescientific.com/writings/diary/archive/2005/04/22/matplotlib.html matplotlib]
 * [http://www.dalkescientific.com/writings/diary/archive/2005/04/23/matplotlib_without_gui.html matplotlib without a GUI]
 * [http://www.dalkescientific.com/writings/diary/archive/2005/04/24/interactive_html.html Interactive HTML]
 * [http://www.dalkescientific.com/writings/diary/archive/2005/04/24/html_templates.html HTML Templates]
 * [http://www.dalkescientific.com/writings/diary/archive/2005/04/26/extending_python.html Extending Python]
 * [http://wiki.python.de/ pythonwiki]
 * [http://www.diveintopython.org/ Dive Into Python]
 * [http://rpy.sourceforge.net/ A simple and efficient access to R from Python]
 * [http://www.faqs.org/docs/diveintopython/kgp_commandline.html Handling command line arguments]
 * [http://www.scienceblogs.de/diaxs-rake/2009/03/wissenschaftlichess-arbeiten-mit-python-und-scipy-i-einfuhrung.php Wissenschaftliches Arbeiten mit Python und SciPy I: Einführung]
 * [http://www.scienceblogs.de/diaxs-rake/2009/04/wissenschaftliches-arbeiten-mit-python-und-pylab-ii-bunte-bildchen-mit-matplotlib.php Wissenschaftliches Arbeiten mit Python und PyLab II: Bunte Bildchen mit matplotlib]
 * [http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=3540435085 Amazon: Python Scripting for Computational Science by Hans Petter Langtangen]
 * [http://wiki.python.org/moin/Languages/German?highlight=%28CategoryLanguage%29 List of German Python Documents]
 * [http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=1590280539 Amazon: Problem Solving With Algorithms And Data Structures Using Python by Bradley N.  Miller]
 * [http://wiki.python.de/ pythonwiki (german)]
 * [http://starship.python.net/mailman/listinfo/python-de python-de -- Die Deutsche Python Mailingliste]
 * [http://www.python-forum.de/ Das deutsche Python-Forum]
 * [http://www.python.org/doc/ Python Documentation]
 * [http://pica1l.lhb.tu-darmstadt.de/CHARSET=ISO-8859-1/DB=LHBDA/FKT=6015/FRM=all%253Apython%2Bper%253A%2Btit%253A%2Bkor%253A%2Bsw%253A%2Bvrl%253A%2Bnum%253A%2Bjhr%253A/IMPLAND=Y/LNG=DU/LRSET=1/SET=1/SID=52e8b744-1/SRT=YOP/TTL=1/SHW?FRST=3 ULB: Das Python-Praxisbuch by Farid Hajji]
 * [http://pica1l.lhb.tu-darmstadt.de/CHARSET=ISO-8859-1/DB=LHBDA/FKT=6015/FRM=all%253Apython%2Bper%253A%2Btit%253A%2Bkor%253A%2Bsw%253A%2Bvrl%253A%2Bnum%253A%2Bjhr%253A/IMPLAND=Y/LNG=DU/LRSET=1/SET=1/SID=52e8b744-1/SRT=YOP/TTL=1/SHW?FRST=7 ULB: Python scripting for computational science by Hans Petter Langtangen]
 * [http://heim.ifi.uio.no/~hpl/scripting/all-nosplit/index.html Slides collection: Scripting for Computational Science]
